1. Introduction - In this section you'll find answers about Shipment Pick Up

Q: What is a pickup request ?
ans: A pickup request needs to be raised once you have packed your shipment. Pick up request means that your shipment is ready to be handed over to the courier company.

Q: How to schedule a pickup ?
ans: We request you to follow the steps mentioned below to request a pickup for your shipments
    a) Go to the Orders tab from the left panel and click on Generate Pickup option
    b) Select the order(s) for which you would like to generate a pick up. 
    c) After selecting the orders, click on bulk pick up request (in case you are requesting bulk pickups)
    d) The pick up request will now be sent to the courier. Please note that your shipment will be picked up on the same day by the courier company if the request is placed before 1 PM, otherwise it is automatically scheduled for the next day.
    e) Make sure that you print a manifest and get it signed by the courier executive when you handover your shipment to them.

    Related Articles
    1. How do I add multiple pickup addresses in the panel? ( link for it :- https://support.shiprocket.in/support/solutions/articles/43000618828-how-do-i-add-multiple-pickup-addresses-in-the-panel-)
    2. I don't agree with the courier’s remarks on pickup failure. What should I do ? (link for it :- https://support.shiprocket.in/support/solutions/articles/43000545830-my-pickup-is-delayed-how-do-i-get-priority-support-for-my-pickup-request-)
    3. Can I delete a pickup address from the panel? (link for it :- https://support.shiprocket.in/support/solutions/articles/43000618829-can-i-delete-a-pickup-address-from-the-panel-)
    4. My shipment is not being picked up by the courier company. What should I do? (link for it :- https://support.shiprocket.in/support/solutions/articles/43000430305-what-if-my-pickup-is-delayed-)

Q:How can I add multiple pickup addresses?
ans: Yes, you can add multiple pickup addresses in the panel. Please follow the steps mentioned below to do so-
    1. You can add multiple pickup addresses in the panel using the following steps-
    1) Go to Settings→ Company from the left menu.
    2) A new window of company information will open in front of you. Click on the Pickup address option on the screen.
    3) Towards the right you will find the option to ‘Add new pickup address’. Click on it and fill your details.
    4) In case you want to make it as your default address, switch on the primary address toggle button.
    2. To upload multiple pick up addresses in bulk
    1) Go to Settings→ Company from the left menu.
    2) A new window of company information will open in front of you. Click on the Pickup address option on the screen.
    3) Click on Upload file Icon and download the sample File from the pop-up.
    4) Fill in the details as per the given format without making any changes/addition in header.
    5) Upload the file by clicking on the same icon.
    NOTE : The location Id for each address is system generated and cannot be edited. Orders when assigned in bulk or individually, will be picked up from the primary address.

    3. Steps to edit Pickup up address
    To edit a pickup address, please follow the steps mentioned below-
    1) Go to Settings→ Company from the left menu.
    2) A new window of company information will open in front of you. Click on the Pickup address option on the screen.
    3) You will find all your pickup addresses on the screen. Click on the edit icon besides a pickup address to change the pickup name and contact details.

    
Q: Please share the pincode serviceability list for my shipments.
ans: You can know the pincode serviceability across Pan India on our platform, using the following steps-
    1. Go to Tools > Pincode Zone Mapping from the left menu
    2. Enter the pickup pincode and click on Submit.
    3. The courier serviceability sheet will be sent on your registered email Id.